Mapping to RATS via introducing DAA Issuer as a protocol entity (#4)
ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-daa: draft-ietf-rats-daa.md

The fact that every Attesting Environment can be uniquely identified in the context of the RATS architecture is not suitable for every application of remote attestation.
Additional issues may arise when Personally identifiable information (PII) -- whether obfuscated or in clear text -- are included in attestation Evidence or even corresponding Attestation Results.
This document illustrates how Direct Anonymous Attestation (DAA) can mitigate the issue of uniquely (re-)identifiable Attesting Environments.

> To accomplish that goal, the protocol entity DAA Issuer as described in {{DAA}}is introduced and its duties as well as its mappings with other RATS roles are specified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To accomplish that goal, the protocol entity DAA Issuer as described in {{DAA}} is introduced and its duties as well as its mappings with other RATS roles are specified.
```

# Direct Anonymous Attestation

> In {{DAA}}, two protocols as described in {{DAA}} are illustrated: the Join Protocol and the DAA-Signing Protocol. This Section specifies the mapping of the protocol entity DAA Issuer described in {{DAA}} as an actor in the Join Protocol as well as an actor in the corresponding DAA-Signing Protocol to roles specified in the RATS Architecture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Two protocols as described in {{DAA}} are illustrated: the Join Protocol and the DAA-Signing Protocol. This section specifies the mapping of the protocol entity DAA Issuer described in {{DAA}} as an actor in the Join Protocol as well as an actor in the corresponding DAA-Signing Protocol to roles specified in the RATS Architecture.
```
improve readability

> In the Join Protocol, the RATS roles Verifier and associated Relying Party roles are taking the protocol entity DAA Issuer. The mapping is illustrated in Figure {{join-mapping}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Join Protocol, the protocol entity DAA Issuer takes on the RATS roles of Verifier and associated Relying Party. The mapping is illustrated in Figure {{join-mapping}}.
```
readability suggestion

                    |    |               |                 |
               .----|----|---------------|-----------------|------.
               |    |    |               |                 |      |
               |    v    v               v                 |      |
               |  .-------------------------.              |      |
         .------->|         Verifier        +-----.        |      |
        |      |  '-------------------------'      |       |      |
        |      |                                   |       |      |
        |  Evidence                    Attestation |       |      |
        |      |                       Results     |       |      |
        |      |                                   |       |      |
        |      |                                   v       v      |
  .-----+----. |                               .---------------.  |
  | Attester | |                               | Relying Party |  |
  '----------' |    DAA Issuer                 '---------------'  |
               '--------------------------------------------------'
~~~~
{: #join-mapping title="RATS Architecture for the Join Protocol"}

> The Join Protocol is essentially an enrollment protocol that consumes Evidence from the Attester (therefore the mapping to the Verifier role). Appraisal Policies for Evidence specifically dedicated to that appraisal procedure are used to decide whether to issue a DAA credential to an Attester or not.

Reviewer: My opinion is that the Attestation Results (not the Evidence per se) is what is used to decide whether to issue a DAA credential to an Attester.   Conceptually, the Evidence is verified, and the result (which may simply be an API call) passes the Attestation Result to the component issuing the credential.

Author: Yes. That was me not paying enough attention to the issue. How about this new text?

```suggestion
The Join Protocol is essentially an enrollment protocol that consumes Evidence from the Attester (therefore the mapping to the Verifier role). Corresponding Appraisal Policies for Evidence specific to the Join Protocol are used to produce Attestation Results to decide whether to issue a DAA credential to an Attester or not (therefore the mapping to the Relying Party role).
```

Reviewer: Looks good, thanks!

       '-----------.     |               |                 | Results
                    |    |               |                 |
                    v    v               v                 |
                  .-------------------------.              |
          .------>|         Verifier        +-----.        |
         |        '-------------------------'      |       |
         |                                         |       |
         | Evidence                    Attestation |       |
         |                             Results     |       |
         |                                         |       |
         |                                         v       v
   .-----+----.                                .---------------.
   | Attester |                                | Relying Party |
   '----------'                                '---------------'
~~~~
{: #sign-mapping title="RATS Architecture for the DAA-Signing Protocol"}

The DAA Issuer acts as the Endorser for the Group Public Key that is used by the Verifier for the appraisal of evidence of anonymized Attesters that use the DAA credentials and associated key material to produce Evidence.

> In consequence, DAA provides a signature scheme that allows the privacy of users that are associated with an Attester (e.g. its owner) to be maintained.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In consequence, DAA provides a signature scheme that allows the privacy of users that are associated with an Attester (e.g., its owner) to be maintained.
```

Essentially, DAA can be seen as a group signature scheme with the feature that given a DAA signature no-one can find out who the signer is, i.e., the anonymity is not revocable.
To be able to sign anonymously, an Attester has to obtain a credential from a DAA Issuer.

> The DAA Issuer uses a private/public key pair to generate credentials for a group of Attesters <!-- this could be phrased a bit confusing as below it is stated that the key-pair is used for a group of Attesters --> and makes the public key (in the form of a public key certificate) available to the Verifier in order to enable them to validate the Evidence received.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The DAA Issuer uses a private/public key pair to generate credentials for a group of Attesters <!-- this could be phrased a bit confusing as below it is stated that the key-pair is used for a group of Attesters --> and makes the public key (in the form of a public key certificate) available to the Verifier in order to enable it to validate the Evidence received.
```

In order to support these DAA signatures, the DAA Issuer MUST associate a single key pair with a group of Attesters <!-- is it clear enough what exactly "a group of Attesters" means? --> and use the same key pair when creating the credentials for all of the Attesters in this group.
The DAA Issuer’s group public key certificate replaces the individual Attester Identity documents during authenticity validation as a part of the appraisal of Evidence conducted by a Verifier.
This is in contrast to intuition that there has to be a unique Attester Identity per device.

> For DAA, the role of the Endorser is essentially the same, but it now provides Attester endorsements to the DAA Issuer rather than directly to the Verifier. These Attester endorsements enable the Attester to obtain a credential from the DAA Issuer.

Reviewer 2: "Attester endorsements" is a confusing term. Since the DAA Issuer contains a Verifier, the RATS Arch roles and conceptual messages remain consistent. The Attester Evidence is what convinces the DAA Issuer to issue a group credential. The group credential is new form of Endorsement that is created in response to an internal Attestation Result. I don't believe the draft needs to use the term "Attester endorsement" and lower case "endoorsement" seems like a misuse of the expected capitalization convention.

> For DAA, the role of the Endorser is essentially the same, but they now provide Attester endorsement documents to the DAA Issuer rather than directly to the Verifier. These Attester endorsement documents enable the Attester to obtain a credential from the DAA Issuer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For DAA, the role of the Endorser is essentially the same, but it now provides Attester endorsements to the DAA Issuer rather than directly to the Verifier. These Attester endorsements enable the Attester to obtain a credential from the DAA Issuer.
```

> For DAA, the role of the Endorser is essentially the same, but it now provides Attester endorsements to the DAA Issuer rather than directly to the Verifier. These Attester endorsements enable the Attester to obtain a credential from the DAA Issuer.

Author: ```suggestion
For DAA, the role of the Endorser is essentially the same, but it now provides Endorsements to the DAA Issuer rather than directly to the Verifier. These Endorsements enable the Attester to obtain a credential from the DAA Issuer.
```

> For DAA, the role of the Endorser is essentially the same, but it now provides Attester endorsements to the DAA Issuer rather than directly to the Verifier. These Attester endorsements enable the Attester to obtain a credential from the DAA Issuer.

Author: ```suggestion
For DAA, the role of the Endorser is essentially the same, but it now provides Endorsements to the DAA Issuer rather than directly to the Verifier. These Endorsements enable the Attester to obtain a credential from the DAA Issuer.
```
